Claude Co-work meets you where your work
happens and allows you to delegate
complete tasks to Claude.
If it's on your computer, Claude can
find and edit it. If it's in the cloud,
Claude connects through services like
Google Drive, Notion, and Slack. If it's
in the browser, Claude is there, too,
through Claude in Chrome.
Describe what you need done and Claude
does it.
You can watch it work, steer when it
matters, or step away and come back to
the results.
Claude Co-work is generally available in
the Claude desktop app on macOS and
Windows for Pro, Max, Team, and
Enterprise users.
To get started, open Claude desktop and
click the Co-work tab. In a regular
Claude chat, you work with Claude
step-by-step. In Co-work, you hand off
tasks and Claude handles the rest while
you focus on other work.
First, give Claude access to a folder on
your computer. Select the folder
directory or project you want Claude to
operate in.
It asks permission before making changes
to your file system.
Claude can now read, create, and edit
files in that folder directly.
You can favorite the folders you go to
most or select multiple folders to
connect to disparate data sources.
Second, connect your tools. Co-work
supports connectors that link Claude to
services. These let Claude pull context
from where your work already lives.
Third, if you've set up Claude in
Chrome, Co-work can use it for
browser-based tasks, reading web pages,
extracting data from sites, and
navigating across tabs.
Under settings, you can also click the
Co-work tab and set global instructions
that apply to every session, like
context about your role or directions to
create files as Word docs instead of
markdown.
One thing to keep in mind, your Co-work
sessions are stored locally on your
device.
And the desktop app needs to stay open
while Claude is working on a task.
Let's start with something really simple
to show how Claude can work directly
with your local files.
You have a downloads folder full of
months of accumulated files, PDFs,
spreadsheets, screenshots, and
duplicates.
Just a ton of random stuff.
You connect it and tell Claude,
"Organize my downloads folder. Scan the
contents and propose a plan. Categories
to create, how files should be sorted,
naming conventions to apply, and files
to flag for review or deletion.
Show me the plan before making changes."
Claude comes back with a proposed
structure. Documents, spreadsheets,
presentations, images, and a duplicates
folder collecting redundant copies.
It suggests date-based naming
conventions and flags for files that
look like duplicates for review.
You look at the flagged duplicates and
notice two of them are actually
different versions you want to keep. You
tell Claude, "Move those two to a review
folder instead of deleting them and go
ahead with the rest of the plan." Claude
adjusts and continues on.
As Claude works, you can watch the
progress in the top right corner. You
can click on each task to see details or
ask questions.
Files actually move on your machine.
When it finishes, your downloads folder
is organized, renamed, and cleaned up.
In a regular chat, Claude could describe
how to organize your files. In co-work,
Claude does it.
That's the core co-work loop. Claude
proposes a plan and waits for your
approval before taking action.
You can adjust the plan, redirect the
approach, or tell Claude to skip certain
steps.
Once you approve, Claude executes
directly in your file system.
Start with tasks that have clear
boundaries like this one, and always
review what Claude produces.
You're delegating the work, not the
judgment.